---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Assignment 3 Checkpoint
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2021-05-07
labels:
  - Checkpoint
---
Develop a prototype of your entire application that addresses the following points: https://youtu.be/pyRdnMLRFZs

Show what each page will look like. The pages do not have to be “functional” but the design should clear. Here is an example PPT prototype

Describe your design for your site’s shopping cart. That is, will it be a separate page that the user can view and edit, or will it be integrated into the product pages? If so, describe in detail how this will work on your site. Provide several examples of using the cart.

Explain specifically how you will use sessions to manage your shopping cart. In particular, what shopping cart data will be stored in the session, what data format will be used (NOT what data type, but the format like with the data format used for your registration data). Use code examples showing what data structures (such as arrays and their objects) you will use to manage the shopping cart data and how they will be used in a session.

How will you avoid access to your application when the user has not logged in or registered? What are the particular security concerns you must address? Upon a successful login, how do you provide personalization in your UI? Explain how you did or will do this (paste code if necessary)

If you are working with partners, how will you split up the work in your team so that you are working in parallel as effectively as possible? That is, who is doing what and when?

How are you approaching Assignment 3 differently than Assignment 2?

