---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Why I'm majoring in MIS
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2021-01-15
labels:
  - MIS
---

Hello, my name is Vincent and I am majoring in Accounting and Management Information Systems. Coming into UHM I honestly didn't really have a plan, I picked a major (Computer Science) off of a top ten major list that I had found online and hoped for the best. I ended up switching majors as the sheer amount of coding and time required for it not only overwhelmed me but scared me as I feared what was to come in future classes which I had heard was even worse. I would often come out of classes with no idea what was going on and spend long sleepless nights trying my best to complete coding assignments and projects all while being completely lost. I ended up deciding that coding although rewarding at times was just too fustrating for me to want to do as a job and so it just wasn't worth it to me to try and suffer through a Computer Science major. I do feel like at that time I did make the right decision, but I did have some regret as there were times when I did have a lot of fun coding, plus the feeling when you finally figure out the problem with your code and get it to run properly was extremely rewarding. It was a difficult decision but I moved on as I decided that it just wasn't for me.

Lost as to what I wanted to do, I ended up applying into Shidler and decided to choose Accounting as my major after being introduced to it during the introductory Accounting courses required to enter Shidler. As I learned more about the field of Accounting I found out about the CPA exam that I would have to eventually take and the 150 college credit requirement for it. Seeing as I would have to get 150 credits before graduting I decided to find another major to add on as a double major. From the major recommendations that I would then hear from other people is how I found out about MIS. There seemed to be a concensus that the best complimenting major to Accounting was either Finance or MIS.

Looking into what MIS was I found that this was exactly the major that would wipe away any regrets I had from leaving Computer Science. A major that would allow me to relive the fun and rewarding experiences of coding. A major that would help me build technical skills like coding and information systems/tech that would surely become important in the future. A major that wasn't just a complete focus on coding/programming, but rather a mix of business, coding, and IT that would allow me to be fully prepared for the incoming technological changes that will be sure to come as I progress in the field of Accounting. I don't think that Accounting will be replaced by technology but the field will definitely be heavily impacted as it will become more and more integrated with IT. I believe that the skills that I will gain from an MIS major will allow me to learn and make full use of the future technology that accountants will become more and more dependent on.
