---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Reflecting on Assignment 3
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2021-05-14
labels:
  - FINISHED
---
Briefly describe your system (e.g. A store selling Pokemon game cards)

My website is a water bottle selling store. We sell four different brands of water bottles: Hydroflask, Pogo, Fidus, and Hydromate.

Any notable shortcomings, bugs, problems, or additional features not implemented?

I couldn’t figure out a way to alert or notify the user through the server.js. When on HTML files you can just do a alert(“”) however on the server.js since it’s a js file you can’t do that. I spent quite a bit of time trying to figure out how to do so but ended up giving up.

Describe what you are most proud of about your system:

I am proud that I was able to actually make the changes to get the four different product pages to show their own products. As, I spent a lot of time trying to fix this when I first started the assignment. Going from one product display to four was a lot trickier than I thought it would be.

Describe what you are least happy with your system:

I am least happy that I wasn’t really able to fix some of the bugs from assignment 2 like the alerts. Also, I didn’t add any of the extra credit options and some of the more minor requirements. 

How was developing this assignment different than assignment #2?

Developing this system was a bit trickier than assignment 2 as there was the introduction of cookies which are stored client-side. Which mean’t that if something went wrong with your cookies you didn’t know if the issue was with your code or computer. Maybe your code had a typo, maybe your browser is blocking cookies, maybe your computer is just stupid. Who knows? I didn’t.

When you ran into a problem, what did you do to address it?

When I ran into problems I did my best to research what problems I had and examples through the internet. I would also sometimes refer to a friend who was having similar issues with their code.

Describe what worked well in doing this assignment?

Well this time I gave myself a lot more time to work on the assignment compared to what I did with the previous ones. This helped a lot and definitely made the whole process a lot less stressful and I was able to take my time a lot more.

Describe what did not work well in doing this assignment?

Not making a definite plan for my project. I definitely wasted a lot of time in the beginning of the project because I didn’t commit to one plan for my code. One example of this was when I was debating on doing something similar to the assignment 3 example code that had one product_display and just the one products array or to make a product_display for each individual brand of water bottle and making it so that each had their own array. I switched back and forth a lot between doing both as I kept making mistakes giving up and switching to the other. I ended up wasting a lot more time doing this because I didn’t just commit to just the one method and force myself to figure that one out.

What did you learn from doing this assignment?

Again I learned that time management goes a long way, as it definitely helped a lot with this assignment. Would I have given myself more time if I could go back in time to the previous assignments? Probably not. I know myself too well to expect that from me. 

If you could go back in time and do things differently, what would you change?

For this assignment, if I could go back in time then again I would have forced myself to focus on just the one method at the beginning as that really did waste a lot of my time. Other than that, I probably should’ve utilized the Professor and the TA’s office hours or help, but I didn’t wanna.

Estimate the % of time you spent (a) thinking about how to do something, (b) writing code (but do not include testing, (c) testing and debugging

20% thinking, 40% writing code, 40% testing and debugging. I definitely put a lot more thought into this assignment, however so many things kept going wrong that I spent a significant amount of time testing, debugging, and writing new code.

Assign an estimated percentage on the amount each team member contributed to the assignment (including yourself) and explain briefly your rationale for the percentage breakdown.

Be sure to include an overview of what specifically you and your partners contributed (e.g. “I worked on the security and my partner 1 worked on personalization”)
I worked on this project alone so 100% to me I guess.
