---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Progress in Programming Report
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2021-04-05
labels:
  - Progress
---

My programming skills have greatly improved in the following ways:

Before this class, I was pretty familiar with JavaScript as I had learned it when I took ICS 111. However, that was a couple years ago and so my coding ability did decay since then. So, from this class it was nice to get a refresher on what I learned back then and to learn other stuff like HTML and CSS. I feel like my programming skills have definitely improved as I can now combine everything that I have learned regarding HTML, CSS, and JavaScript to create things like the web application from Assingment 1. Another thing that I had forgotten from my ICS 111 class is the amount of research that you had to do. This is another thing that I have improved on as I have had to spend a lot of time researching problems that I had with my code and or just things that I didn't understand.

I need to work on the following to improve my programming skills:

I think the one big problem that really showed during this last Assignment is that I don't leave enough time to do things. With Assigment 1, I definitely should've started a lot sooner. I ended up having to pull a couple of all nighters to finish the Assignment in the end. One of the most important lessons you have to learn when programming is that something will always go wrong with your code. And, it will likely take hours and maybe even days to fix those code errors even if the error is just something as simple as forgetting a semicolon. This is something that I really have to keep in mind going forward. To start as soon as I can for assingments as I will never know what might go wrong with my code. Other than that I really need to start trying to work on writing up the code myself. During this assingment I found myself using the past WODs and labs a lot but a lot of what I did was just copy pasting certain code and altering it to fit my needs. To become better at programming I feel like I need to force myself to write more code from scratch rather than looking at references all the time. 

I can do the WODs without looking at the screencast solutions first.

Yes, I can usually do most of the WODs without looking at the screencast first. As usually the lab covers everything you need to know to finish them. So, with what I remember from the labs I do try to complete the WODs without looking at the screencast. However there are times when I do get stuck and will look at the screencast to figure out where I went wrong. There have also been a couple of times in the beginning of the semester where I didn't even know where to start on a WOD and had to watch the screencast first, however I feel that at this point in the semester I have progressed to the point where that will no longer happen.

The labs have helped me to learn and I am able to complete them with confidence.

Yes, the labs have definitely been very helpful as it goes over and covers a lot of the stuff that we need to know to finish our WODs and assignments. They provide us with example code as well as understanding of that code which allows us to utilize it during our assignments. However, I wouldn't say that I am able to complete them with confidence. The labs seem to be designed in a way that it is just for the professor to walk through everything step by step rather than for the students to actually figure out on their own. So, when there are instances in which we do have to complete a part of the lab on our own I am usually lost on what to do. 

I feel ready I am ready to work on the next stage of complexity in programming (building small web applications like Assignment 1).

I don't really feel all that ready for the next stage as I still don't have the understanding of Assingment 1 and the past few labs that I would like to have. The past few labs ended up unfinished in class with us having to do them on our own and so I do feel like I have to revisit them and the Assignment 1 to really familiarize myself with everything a bit more. 

I think the class can be improved to help my learning in the following ways:

During the labs a lot of class time is spent talking about things that aren't really necessary. Considering the fact that we are constantly behind schedule, I feel like it is even more important to be efficient with our time in class. During the beginning of class, time is spent going over some of the stuff that we went over in the previous class, and I just feel like that isn't needed. Our classes are recorded and so if people really need a refresher on what was went over previously then they can revisit those classes through the videos. Also, a lot of time is also spent answering student questions. I'm not saying that student questions shouldn't be answered in class, but there have definitely been cases where way too much time was spent trying to figure out whatever problem that student had. At some point it is necessary to just stop and talk with the student after class or outside of class about their issue rather than hold the entire class back.

These are things that work really well for my learning in this class:

The resources that are provided that allow for self-learning. That is the recorded lectures, recorded WODs, example code, and readings. I find myself to be a lot more productive when I just go through things on my own rather than following along with the class. When you have the code and resources, I feel like just going through them and trying to figure everything out yourself is a lot more fun then following along in class. 
