---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Reflecting on Assignment 2 Technical Essay
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2021-04-29
labels:
  - Reflection
---

Provide a brief introduction to the assignment along with a link to this page for further details

For this Assignment 2 we had to make it so that our website had a login/register feature with user validation. This means that users had to be redirected to a login page and 
then to the invoice after a successful login or to a registration page if they didn't have an account and then to the invoice. All user logins and registrations had to be validated
and checked over to see if it was appropriate and if there was already an existing account or not. 
https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/150.Assignment2/experience-Assignment2_retrospective.html

What did you learn from this assignment?

Learning the whole process of creating login and registration pages through the use of forms and the POST method was pretty cool and I will likely be able to use what I've learned 
about forms in the future. I also learned how to redirect users to different pages based on what they input into the system through the use of user validation. To be able to keep the 
user inputs with each redirect to another page was also something very useful.

Did you work with a partner? Assign an estimated percentage on the amount each team member contributed to the assignment (including yourself).

I worked by myself on this project.

How did you get help when you needed it? What did you need help with?

When I needed help I went online and tried to research and look up whatever problem that I had. I also discussed some of the problems that I had with friends that are in this class 
and referred to the Getting Started with Assignment 2 screencast. Some stuff that I needed help with was how to transfer my Assignment 1 from the GET method to POST and for some 
of the validation stuff. For example, I didn't know how to validate an email and so I had to look up the code that would do that.

How was developing this assignment different than assignment #1?

I feel like it was a bit easier because with Assignment 2 we just had to modify our Assignment 1 whereas with Assignment 1 we had to create the whole store website from scratch 
and from the labs/WODS. So, making the needed modifications wasn't too hard, especially since the Getting Started with Assignment 2 screencast went over how to setup the login 
and registration page. I think the one thing that I had the most trouble with was just fixing my GET method to POST.

Estimate the % of time you spent (a) thinking about how to do something, (b) writing code (but do not include testing, (c) testing and debugging

I would say that I spent about 10% thinking, 40% coding, and 50% testing. This isn't because I didn't think that much about my project, but because my code didn't want to work so 
I spent a lot of time testing, debugging, and writing new code. 

Describe what worked well with this project? What did not work well?

The user validation and redirecting to different pages based on login and registration data works well as it does what it needs to do. What did not work well is that I do not 
have any error messages for the login and registration pages. That was one of the things that I just could not figure out how to do and gave up. However, everything else works 
pretty well. 

If you could go back in time and do things differently, what would you do differently?

I would have fixed the problems that I had with my Assignment 1 a lot earlier, because when I started on my Assignment 2 I ended up spending a lot of time trying to fix the 
mistakes that I had in my Assignment 1. The biggest one that took the longest time was changing the GET method to POST. Other than that, I probably should've sought out more 
help from the professor.
